1.Install MySQL Workbench on your computer, connect to the local MySQL server, and take a screenshot of the default databases shown in the Schemas panel.



2.Create a new database called InstaClone in MySQL Workbench, then create a table named Users with columns: user_id (INT, primary key), username (VARCHAR), email (VARCHAR), and followers_count (INT).

CREATE DATABASE InstaClone

CREATE TABLE Users(
user_id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
username VARCHAR(50),
email VARCHAR(60),
followers_count INT    
);

3.Insert 3 sample users into the Users table you created, using realistic Instagram-style usernames and follower counts.

INSERT INTO users VALUES
('1','Riya manek','manekriya4@gmail.com','500'),
('2','Priya patel','priya12@gmail.com','420'),
('3','Ruchi Shah','ruchi123@gmail.com','250');


4.Create another table in the InstaClone database called Posts with columns: post_id (INT, primary key), user_id (INT), caption (VARCHAR), and post_date (DATE). Add a foreign key from Posts.user_id to Users.user_id to establish a relationship.

CREATE TABLE posts(
post_id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
user_id INT,
caption VARCHAR(50),
post_date DATE,
INDEX idx_user_id (user_id)    
);


5.Write a short comparison (3-4 lines each) of MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and SQLite, focusing on where each one is commonly used (for example: web apps, mobile apps, enterprise systems, etc.).

MySQL

MySQL is commonly used for websites and web applications.
It is popular with PHP, Java, Python and other web technologies.
It is useful for storing user, product and website data.
It is also widely used in small and large web projects.

PostgreSQL

PostgreSQL is an advanced open-source database system.
It is commonly used for web applications and data-heavy applications.
It supports complex queries and many advanced features.
It is also used in analytics and large software projects.

Oracle

Oracle Database is commonly used in large enterprise systems.
Banks, companies and government organizations often use it.
It supports large amounts of data and complex transactions.
It is designed for high-performance business applications.

SQLite

SQLite is a small and lightweight database.
It is commonly used in mobile apps, desktop apps and small applications.
It does not need a separate database server.
It is often used in Android and other embedded applications.